I had a strange dream I was walking
through a golden temple beneath the dome
of glass and through chambers of
splendor filled with so many objects
that the heart so desires
I saw miracles of human skill and
artistry and flawless beings who
seemingly lacked nothing but it appeared
they were all searching for something
[Music]
such strange creatures
the whole world is in a big mess the
more they get the more they want
president Bush after 9/11 said I urge
all Americans to go shopping this print
would still make me money it's the thing
in me I grew up in a way that I will
still make money even if I was left in
the desert
there is someone who tries to say you
need this there are enough people who
think they need that that's what the
marketing strategy is is that it always
tells you you shouldn't be content the
minge is not humans are by nature greedy
evolution has shown us that as long as
this mechanism doesn't become too
dominant it serves the goals of the
individual perfectly individuals each
mujuy to survive today I go so far as to
say it's a symptom of an illness
catastrophe is on its way
catastrophe you and I we cannot even
imagine I wonder if we're a viable form
of life maybe we're just an evolutionary
flash in the pan
and we'll be sitting right next to the
dinosaurs at the cockroach Museum one
thing I would love to say that you must
always think of your death
[Music]
I kept asking myself why are we like
this
we're caring and compassionate
but we're also egocentric and reckless
we give and reward
we create and destroy
what is our problem
what drives us I went in search of
answers
[Applause]
humanities at the crossroads I think a
historical moment the physical
environment is undermine to the point
where we need to attend to it war is
something that we ought to think about
what why does that happen
people are pervasively unhappy on top of
all of that we keep building Walmart's I
see insatiable greed as inextricably
connected to all of these other
difficulties that if we don't recognize
and come to terms with we're literally
putting our species at risk
you know you might ask to talk about
Darwin well if you're asked to talk
about Darwin it has to be about
evolution and what's the word evolution
mean change and so so evolution is an
idea that Darwin is trying to understand
and what's his strikingly original
proposal natural selection suit
[Music]
Cubans are on the one hand very similar
to all other forms of life in that we
share a basic biological predisposition
you know towards survival but on the
other hand we're so smart that we
actually recognize that we exist
[Music]
and the point here is that being alive
and knowing it is grounds for great joy
[Music]
on the other hand it also carries a very
terrible existential burden if you know
that you're here you know that someday
like all living things that you won't be
here if that's all we thought about I'm
gonna die I may walk outside and get hit
by a meteor we would literally be
paralyzed by abject terror
what human beings did is to construct
and maintain what the anthropologists
today call culture and all cultures
offer some recipe for immortality either
literally through the heavens and after
lives and reincarnation z' of all the
world's great religions or symbolically
through the belief that some vestige of
our identity will persist over time
nevertheless
[Music]
that's why you want to have children
that's why you want to build pyramids
that's why we want to write great books
and symphonies that's why we want to
have a lot of money
human beings are motivated to have a lot
of stuff because psychologically
speaking it gives them a sense that they
may be able to live forever
desire greed and the struggle that
brings about anger and aggression from
the philosophical Buddhist philosophical
perspective are all resultant states of
a person consistently trying to look at
what is not true we talk about three
fundamental truths that things are
impermanent secondly the fundamental
principle of everything is said to be
emptiness
[Music]
but now what happens is we try to build
something that makes us forget about
this we try to make things permanent and
that struggle creates the third truth of
this suffering we begin to then hang on
to things I'll give you an example you
know if I have a shirt and every time I
go out to do some shopping you buy
another shirt you may have 12 in your
closet but you'll buy the thirteenth
just so that you have a sense of you'll
live long enough to wear altered in
shirts or perhaps even more than that so
there's a sense of every day
consistently doing something because of
which we may be able to more solidify
our sense of immortality our sense of
living continuously not changing and
that struggle consistently builds up all
these neuroses and the prominent one of
them becomes the greed
[Music]
death is a very real physical phenomenon
and it doesn't matter how good your
symbols are your religion your politics
your money there's still symbols and
none of them will be sufficient to
minimize death anxiety or rather to
eliminate it you can reduce it but you
can't get rid of it and then finally
just really to make matters worse we
also don't like the idea that we're
animals from a starkly biological point
of view we're not all that much more
significant or enduring than lima beans
or armadillos an animal takes only what
it needs but the human animal is
different more than seven billion of us
populate the planet and each of us
desires something
desires more
is this perhaps the secret of success
[Music]
the UM mess instrumentally now developed
instruments to measure greed as a
personality trait and also to elicit a
state of greed in people mentioned in
Ireland social context of a citizen
associates this is the balloon task we
use it to measure our test subjects
willingness to take risks the subject
has to try to keep inflating of the loom
the larger the balloons the more it's
worth the punch period in each round the
subjects play for real money every time
they inflate the balloon they're risking
that it might first and then their money
would be gone
as pets I incur nest we've been able to
demonstrate that people who tend to be
greedy are more likely to take risks
when performing this task so they
inflate the balloon further than do
normal test subjects and we see that
people who tend towards greed also
demonstrate an altered brain response in
this archaic see in this graphic we see
how our brain responds to rewards and a
punishment so far we've been able to
demonstrate that the more greedy the
test subject the weaker are the
punishments signals so she has indeed
wished - technology
GABA is this interesante that's that
what is interesting is that these people
also tend to want to maintain night
State the classic experiments of old
Simula on the brains dopamine system are
very interesting in this respect the
amine cysteine indium
if electrodes are implanted in exactly
this region of a rat's brain and the rat
is then put into a situation where it
can stimulate that dopamine system
directly by pressing a lever the rats
will continue pressing the lever until
they die is a test equipment and this is
presumably one of the biological
mechanisms that helps explain excessive
breed
[Music]
[Applause]
come on Ren there you go
bloom we go oh you can have two okay
where's my lead oh you already have two
[Music]
most primates are highly social but
these guys are atypical in that they're
also highly tolerant there is a
hierarchy and everyone knows who's on
top and the individuals at the top get
more males get more matings females get
more access to resources but you don't
have this really steep hierarchy where
there's one individual at the top who
gets everything and you also see some
things that you don't necessarily see
across the primates like respect for
possessions so we can look for instance
at how do you respond when you get more
and I get less how do you respond when
you get less and I get more and that's
tractable to study experimentally hey
guys so the experiment itself is very
simple it take two monkeys or two Apes
set them next to one another and you
interact with them sequentially and what
they have to do is a very simple task so
we give them a token they return it and
give them the food reward for having
completed it but then the critical
component is how does this individual
respond to that medium preferred food
like a cucumber or a piece of bell
pepper when their partner gets something
much better
[Music]
see this that could be due to inequity
it could be due to hey look my partner
got something better than me or it could
just be due to general sort of greed for
lack of a better term hey there's a
better food out there and I wanted
from an evolutionary perspective the
behavior that we consider greed which is
acquiring as many resources as possible
is important most animals live more at
the margin than modern Western humans do
so not acquiring as many resources for
them is a real risk of death in human
societies so my perspective is that
Green has taken on not just acquiring as
much as possible but acquiring as much
as possible explicitly at the expense of
other individuals and I don't think that
that's something that you can apply to
animals one day narcissus came upon a
spring that was so clear that he could
see himself in it as if in a mirror when
he saw his own reflection he fell in
love with its beauty we too like to see
ourselves as the center of the world the
individual is now the measure of all
things
and so we yearn for recognition and
self-esteem we collect relationships
photos and likes SUVs shoes records are
we like narcissus addicted to our own
egos
[Music]
being successful in business is an art
and when you have it you can be able to
take things to a level that people would
be surprised how much you describe me to
price this we'll talk about that the
International price this talk about our
prices 700 square metres fifth floor x
eight floors x our logo price one
thousand one thousand two thousand
it will cost you five point six million
yeah I rather do those types of videos
cuz that's exactly what it's gonna be I
will tell you my philosophy is very
simple there is a thin line separating a
businessman and a criminal why because
anything I do
somebody's bound to self cheated him so
all of us as businessmen throughout the
world whether it's Bill Gates its
Richard Branson we are all viewed the
crew knows but it's because we think
beyond other people think President
Mugabe is my brother from a European
perspective or the nephew from our
African be a brother
we cannot have the world full of critics
we went there and by the shrinked there
are fewer critics more duels that way
the world economy will be nice to live
welcome to my house I want to show you
around as well as the achievements I've
had for for so many years and yeah you
know it's cool which is near my old
offices they gave me an award for
building a school block and then an
organization help us help ourselves
honored me for my work for humanitarian
reasons so they gave me this award where
this award from BAFTA its main focus is
to recognize those who have done a lot
of work in human rights affirmative
action and empowerment issues you know
internationally that's me in here with
my main lounge where him if you come in
and friends and family we are we we do
meet and toss around you know have
conversations of sorts political economy
and family
[Music]
the property has a helipad on top so
when it's cold here we did we do put the
heaters
so it really has you know heaters over
here and this room is called him that
the dining room if I'm refurbishing this
house this is the only room I don't
refurbish because it gives me that
sentimental relationship with the
president and yeah the man that money
can buy
[Music]
this is it I know where I came from I
came from being a vegetable vendor my
bed was their floor the grand elliptic
floor that's where I used to sleep with
a very poor linen blanket that goes
beneath me and one on top and that
history is why I want to you know be
able to show I got a live well
[Music]
things like the racetrack and all other
forms of public spectacle are of
interest to folks for so many reasons
one aspect of the racetrack is gambling
another part of it is to highlight one
status relative to one's fellow human
beings
somebody is quote better not by how big
or strong he or she is but rather how
one dresses how you conduct yourself and
how you establish that you are richer
than more worthy than and therefore more
immune from death than all of the other
folks who surround you in some ways this
is no different than dominance
hierarchies and primates
[Applause]
we love heroes and therefore have become
preoccupied with being the best at
something even if it's how many hotdogs
I can eat in ten minutes
in America we're number one not in
science or literacy or anything
important we are number one in
depression however how could this be
what you have to do is look at cultural
values to see if there realistically
attainable by the average individual
if you're a male you're basically valued
by how much you have and this is the
so-called American Dream if you work
hard enough you can have as much money
as LeBron James or or Warren Buffett or
Bill Gates
[Music]
but realistically for every millionaire
there's got to be hundreds of thousands
of people working part time at Walmart
without benefits same for women but they
have a different cultural burden we
teach women that in order to be
beautiful you have to be ridiculously
thin your breasts excluded of course
so if I can't floss my teeth with you
you're too fat and you have to remain
perpetually young which of course is
biologically impossible Wow we cherish
values that are simply not possible to
attain
[Music]
if you say I want to be true to the
world you got to get rid of all your
aims and when I say your imes I'm
talking about I'm this and I'm that I
can do this and I can do this
oh yeah I did this last year oh I can do
that
oh I'm better than him so all those
times it's egos
[Music]
there's a lot of people in South Africa
both black and white who carry the Eagle
page on them and they carry it high as a
flag you see and and those are the
people who we would see as the future
bureaucrats of the country
if you are driving into a poor
neighborhood where you know people are
starving to death and you're driving
down with your mercedes-benz or your
rolls-royce that is the worst thing you
could ever do driving with this ego to
say I'm better than you you know you'll
never be where I am
those people are lost
[Music]
then each terminal if I believe I have
to assert my ego the only way I can do
that is through greedier I'm forced to
constantly cooperate something into
myself that lends stability to my ego
those can be material things but they
can also be spiritual things for example
ideas like I'm important for example or
and somebody due to money or fame of my
title or something like that
our entire modern world is based on this
here for the picnic green destroys
people's of the earth why because it
isolates us and because greed is
something like a drug you know I have a
more I want to have because whatever I
have no longer satisfies me so it's not
what I actually possess that satisfies
me it's the constant striving for more
religion has known for centuries that
this drive lies within us humans but
this drive is also our ruin a playlist
[Laughter]
[Music]
since time immemorial there have been
stories of people who could never get
enough people like King Midas he asked
Diana says to grant him a wish but
everything he touched would turn to gold
but even his food and his drink turned
to gold
it seemed he might starve or die of
thirst gold and riches have always been
cast under the spell of omnipotence and
a whisper of eternity what I ask myself
gives money such a powerful allure
[Laughter]
the coupla poof's coming out Spanky
Karev
I chose banking as my career I'm a
trained accountant and I worked with the
Ullaeus bear & Co our gay bank first in
Zurich I on the Cayman Islands which is
a tax haven job I was promoted to
compliance officer waning I was the
legal conscience of the company name ins
[Music]
ina give me security
a certain amount of greed is instilled
into you that was true for me too I have
to imagine you start to think only in
monetary units I think what dollar signs
appear before your eyes and in your
heart then they're there and they're the
only thing that matters feed poor feed a
lot of profit and making sure you don't
get caught bands the way I operate out
to the course
in minor functionals in my function as
compliance officer I determined that we
had criminal clients tombi been lower
names like bin Laden I was a Mexican
drug box it became clear to me that I
was working for a criminal organization
and that the bank was a participant in
tax evasion and fraud we 12 industry
hint at some of the talk I ended up
feeling morally and hunted given took
the matter up with management
McDonagh management Anjali
evolve it or we were threatened the
entire family ended up leaving the
Cayman Islands very suddenly try to bank
had been Swiss bankers in the Cayman
Islands who have been killed their house
key custom suits to an extent my
decision to leave the system was a moral
issue but what was more important I
think was that I realized the system had
turned against me theme Keegan for
example the threats that were made
against me in the Cayman Islands the way
I was fired and then threatened again
the bank would destroy me if I tried to
file charges against them on Tiger where
the dog fell on the rocky bank the bank
sent private detectives after us I was
followed on my way to work I had to
change the route I took to work change
my workout is the site of a black car
would upset me
I was completely smoked I even
considered suicide I wanted to drive me
crazy they involved in pipe
these darts and volkov top estate
prosecutors had all the information but
they did nothing with it but the son
Pony it's a politically but it would
make the criminal clients uneasy
they would realize they're no longer
safe and protected either so with that
in mind the authorities don't go after
the bank without the bonk they go after
the man who made the truth public laws
they're evolved tightly
I spent 217 days in prison the first 30
days were in 2005 the rest in 2011
by those times I was in solitary
confinement spending 23 hours a day
alone in my south there were prisoners
who flipped rapidly started banging
against the doors screaming
this right sort of Switzerland and
basically every country they protect
their golden calves the golden calf in
Switzerland is banking secrecy that's
why no one had ever investigate the
Yuliya spare Bank even though the state
prosecutors know that yulia's bear might
help deceive the US tax authorities so
forth for political reasons the state
prosecutors who never investigate
we could be a flower question was how
could we create test conditions that
would approximate the behavior of a
stockbroker for example our loss
Meteor functional and magnificent we use
functional magnetic resonance imaging to
investigate brain activity in our test
subjects it is currency 9 we can look
deep into the brain without including
into the structures responsible for the
reward response our subjects play a
stock trading game and have to decide
whether they want to invest a large
amount of money or a small amount then
they get feedback during the game as to
whether the share price is rising or
falling we've been able to determine
that people who are especially greedy
they display a more muted response in
regions responsible for punishment and
loss of money this mechanism enables a
kind of disinhibition I'm making this
monster an art in Tamil
under their Quinta naama bay ston the
assumption that ordinary and average
people will be risk averse is that it
makes sense for the finance industry
which is optimized for outcome to hire
people who are more inclined toward risk
yeah R Biden they achieved that with
bonuses and with targeted hiring
practices an efficiently person allows
five
Flaubert dozen I believe it's just a
matter of time before the next finance
crisis will hit
[Music]
yeah we'll watch it Jeanette okay
tonight
what in exchange what you did great okay
thank you very much
[Music]
when I started hearing about Warren
Buffett's and Bill Gates worth it was
run about the 3040 billions but now it's
70 billion you know in life if you have
only a billion dollars you can be able
to leave for 273 years and eat or spend
ten thousand dollars a day how many of
us live for 233 years so if you have got
a billion that means you can even spend
thirty thousand a day because you're not
gonna last that long but still other
people make much more you know nobody
can say I don't want more
if people like me don't make money
there is no taxes that enables
government to function so therefore
people who make money enable things to
happen and I'm all of those people
[Music]
more growth more affluence more
contentment this is the promise of those
who mean well with us and we're only too
happy to believe them we do our part
are we hoping to buy ourselves happiness
many Western Europeans and Americans
they no longer really have a firm belief
in God but you have to believe in
something
you know we have these belief systems
that reduce death anxiety but there's
always going to be a rumble of panic
beneath the surface of consciousness
we're gonna take this death anxiety and
we got to do something with it and one
thing that we can do is by oddish
[Music]
by the time you can talk you have
already been pelted with commercial
images like the Nike check and the
golden arches we know them subliminally
[Music]
our children are growing up in a world
that is radically different from the
ones that you and I grew up and their
brains have been modified accordingly
manufacturers of consumer goods they are
spending literally billions of dollars
to ensure that no child is left behind
in the commercial rat race we're
basically in a sense no different than
amoebas we are attracted to anything
that fosters life and pleasure and we're
repulsed and afraid of anything that
threatens that state of affairs shoes
shoes and their shoes everywhere shoes
sometimes you don't want to let go of
something you keep it
for instance this shoe I've never won it
but I think it's been sitting here for
like prayers still brand new and it's
the same thing with this one still brand
new that's one still brand new this is a
designer shoe I don't want to be limited
because in in the Bible Genesis says you
must have dominion over everything that
gives me that strength nobody in the
Bible I can open it for you nobody is
poor Abraham Moses everybody he's a rich
man in the bible bible does not talk
about poverty the Bible is the biggest
money machine everywhere each verse
talks about money that is something that
people need to realize and I'm happy
that there's something like this
I think the key for the material society
is that it will always tell you that
there's something missing
you need something else we're all
contributing I don't think it's only the
you know you can't just blame someone
who's trying to sell you something so
demand and supply you know we're all
sort of supporting each other in it and
we've all gotten into this cycle that we
are unable to find ourselves free from
[Music]
talking about 24 hours I would say 23
hours and 55 minutes samsara is saying
come you're missing something
and by samsara I mean the habitual
patterns and you keep thinking they're
calling me samsara is calling I need to
go there have a car have a house have a
partner be busy be neurotic that's what
I would say of course you don't call it
that way you call it being someone being
capable finding your identity
[Music]
whether it's discontentment you're
always looking for more you're always
looking for more that struggle brings
about so much insecurity and unhappiness
[Music]
one of the reasons why people acquire so
much is because it feels good
there are both neurochemical and
psychological feedback loops it causes
you to continue doing it well beyond
what you actually need it's one thing
when you go out and I can get a cup of
cool warm coffee on a cold rainy day
it's completely another thing when you
buy a you know 75th pair of shoes you
really really don't in any stretch of
the imagination need those shoes but
they're still gonna make you feel good
there is this drive to as we say in the
u.s. keep up with the Joneses in our
wealthy set on in Park Avenue
everybody's 16th birthday party last
year everybody handed out iPods well
this year we're gonna hand out iPads
well this year we're gonna do this and
so there's also this sort of ratchet
effect there's nothing wrong with being
a consumer I mean to stay alive we have
to consume things but that we literally
surrounded ourselves with stuff to the
point where we become imprisoned in a
gilded cage
we became consumed with consumption we
gonna keep buying stuff until the last
drop of petroleum has been burnt
[Music]
a Flemish proverb holds the world is a
haystack and each man plucks from it
what he can we humans wish to have to
possess but the question is can we have
anything without taking it away from
someone else
[Music]
in 1657 the Portuguese came through
Mozambique they were the first people to
be here exploiting gold
Africa is like a thumb
so anybody who sets himself up somewhere
it would just extract the minerals and
take them away you can imagine a country
ten times bigger than the map was
colorized by one person in Belgium who
called it is from this was absolutely
unfair on the African continent
[Music]
that's it you stand by principle we have
the right to ownership of our resources
our land policy was right the man has
done a lot for me Mugabe ensured that
the masses got land which they got for
free and they are producing we may not
have kicked off or at the best of how
things should be but people are catching
up and that particular movie met people
must be equal must be treated equally
all of them
[Applause]
[Music]
when the Christian missionaries got to
Africa how long had the Africans been
there forever they were the first humans
and when they got there did they say oh
we would like to learn about the customs
that you have used for hundreds of
thousands of years what did they say
you're Catholic now or we kill you all
right so they just said we are the best
the rest stop doing that and you're
Catholic now let's play bingo
[Applause]
in the back of our head we know that the
current Western approach to life
requires that we directly and indirectly
take advantage of other people's
war and stuff go together and they
always have our ability to consume
wanton Li requires the involuntary
subjugation of large swatches of the
rest of the world you cannot be an
American in less you can have a banana
anytime you want it or coffee anytime
want it well for that to happen I need
people to grow bananas and I need people
to grow coffee and they may like to have
something else besides banana and coffee
but we're just gonna send our military
and install our businesses there instead
the military and the leaders of the
fortune 500 companies are literally and
symbolically inextricably connected
[Applause]
this whole place is full of minerals you
know so yeah I want to take you down so
that you can see the David Livingstone
the man who discovered this force we can
say doing business this colonialism if
the Americans the British the Germans
take away their money Chinese man amass
c'mere a Russian man I'm askin the thing
is if we do not have capital as big as
the one the Chinese are bringing into
Africa we will not be able to exploit
those minerals and should we created
arrogancy towards money
to say that exploitation only happens in
Africa is wrong
most European countries have got slaves
even in Europe America there's two
people who take people illegally keep
them and keep them as slaves and are
using them pimping them and all sorts of
things so that must go because it isn't
the right you know thing to do the on on
a human being regardless of what kind of
bondage you are in you can break that
bondage
[Music]
[Applause]
in the biblical story of Babel mankind
wanted to build a tower that would reach
to the heavens God punished its bride by
creating a confusion of languages the
Tower of Babel the ultimate symbol of
self-indulgence and excess when humans
aspired to be gods of bad things happen
[Music]
[Applause]
who'd of Emma had a nose at funerals in
1994 who - Velma started working for the
barre banking establishment he soon
discovered some strange things and tried
to speak with management about them the
dark stiff it was above board but the
bear management weren't all too pleased
about that would it and he was fired and
then he became a whistleblower passing
on a CV tax data to the Swiss tax
authorities he figured they'd take
action given dimensions and find
somebody a house in victory but offshore
to be ninja players like to talk about
fall shoring today offshoring I mean not
only tax havens but also what I call
havens of collusion and concealment
this is Ugland house in the Cayman
Islands the registered address for
nineteen thousand different companies as
President Obama said neither it's the
biggest building in the world the
biggest tax scam well it's not the
biggest houses Disney current estimates
say about 21 or maybe 31 and billion US
dollars are hidden offshore offshore
fistic say
Joe behind I'm afraid because I was part
of this sister and I know how these
people end up the some ancient sister
named tweak on their path is strewn with
corpses is imagine Gare de Lyon
he's been a gay ignore might become an
opponent of capitalism because I see
what terrible things it's done to the
world
the West has embraced itself at the
expense of third-world countries on a
massive scale or thief in a manner that
I believe is contrary to all humanity
Giga near the mention CAI que tu -
office
the arrogant those who currently hold
power will use every means of their
disposal to ensure the system remains in
place unchanged fish day until us be as
high tastes
the hubris of the lords of Finance is
explicable in a few ways
one is that we have the highest regard
for people who appear to have the
capacity to generate infinite amounts of
money I think another reason that we
venerate them is that it just appears to
be magic money makers make money out of
making money and then finally I just
think money has become the new God and
kind of a secular universe
[Music]
I'm not saying people shouldn't be rich
you work hard to get there and it's your
right but there are those who don't
actually care they just take and take
and it causes problems when we have the
Kings who are running the world from
their palaces they knew the value of
gold the more I have of this the more I
could have of whatever I want and that's
how it grows and they'll make sure that
the poorer people gets poorer we saw
that back then and we starting to see
today again
I don't need a Lamborghini I don't need
a mansion
I just need simple things like hi hi
talk talk
you can't live a life without money and
you can't live life without love because
you have to love other people so that
they can love you back
and you're to it to make to have man so
that you can give life they were the way
you want it politicians most of them are
greedy because they say especially
heinous or Africa there's a lot of
corruption yeah
[Music]
poor people who are surrounded by poor
people for the most part they're not
depressed it's when there's poverty
juxtaposed with inordinate riches
that's what fosters depression and
unwellness there are people who say this
is a good thing that self-interested
people acquiring as much as they can or
that they would like the rising tide
lifts all boats then some people are
gonna have more that's fine
well the counterpoint though is that I
don't think it is fine
[Music]
I wonder is mankind perhaps not an error
of evolution nature is bizarre
experiment on a small blue planet
are we really mentally incapable of
looking ahead
[Music]
there's been any number of great
civilizations the Aztecs the Incas that
have from time to time imploded on
themselves
if you look back historically at
societies that have collapsed they often
do so right after they appeared to be at
their most auspicious moment if we think
we can just keep increasing the number
of humans on the planet and provide each
of them with the lifestyle that we in
the West currently enjoy without turning
the earth into a humanely uninhabited
smoldering heap I think we're deluding
ourselves our frenzied desire for
infinite amounts of stuff will have the
paradoxical consequence of being the
first form of life to be responsible for
our own extinction
it's very ominous I would argue
[Music]
[Laughter]
[Applause]
this is a ground zero for climate change
for this is where we can get closest to
the big ice and this is why it's
happening
in 1978 as a runner for the elders I
gave a talk at the nominations that the
big ice is melting so when I finished I
got the standing ovation and and then
they say that that love is a well-spoken
young eskimo for nobody heard the
message whoever go be in India in South
Africa in Tokyo in Hong Kong in Rio de
Janeiro New York Copenhagen Paris Berlin
[Music]
no matter where go nobody cheats nobody
at the time of my birth this ice was
only averaged 5 kilometers thick but now
on the average will be about 2
kilometers that means 3 kilometers of
ice is melted when it gets warmer and it
is getting warmer every single day with
one Celsius the water will literally
expand more than 2 meters handbook is
only 75 centimeters above the sea level
London is less than a meter as well I
wanted you to see these big eyes to feel
her energy
[Music]
this big ice on the top of the world
carries a wisdom because everything what
happens on mother earth will end up in
the North hemisphere for in the
antarctica south hemisphere we drive on
tires made of rubber
but addabani lost eating rubber so all
that tiny pieces of rubber had to go
somewhere
so the wind would catch it and he goes
off to the jet stream and the end here
and it becomes too heavy here they fall
down a snore
but when the Sun comes back rubber loves
Sun so it melts the ice
only faces only figures is telling you
something
[Music]
mankind is like a teenager they don't
care about what's going to happen
tomorrow
this big ice will melt in your lifetime
you before you become all like me most
of this one will be gone
catastrophe is on its way
catastrophe you and I we cannot even
imagine
water will always win
[Applause]
[Music]
Prometheus stole fire from the gods and
gave it to humans in punishment
Zeus created the seductive Pandora and
gave her a box as a gift even though she
had been warned not to bend or opened
the box and all the evils of the world
escaped only hope was left inside the
[Music]
human race we have a tremendously decent
track record so far of extra cating
ourselves from profound difficulties
once we understand what produces them we
have to evaluate all values is this
important to me because I'm a cultural
meat puppet
that's just having my strengths pulled
by the society at large or have I really
systematically questioned what I want
and why I do what I do
[Music]
so you either give up and despair and do
nothing or you do something and you do
it with passion and conviction
[Music]
the cult of les was a project that I
started for myself to try to get rid of
everything that I owned because I found
that the more things I owned the less
happy I was
[Music]
as I was traveling I noticed that I
didn't really miss all of the things I
had owned when I got back I couldn't
really tell you you know what those
things were so rather than continuing to
keep them I decided to get rid of those
things
the cult of les was like a website that
I put together and I listed everything
that I owned at the time and I put a
description next to it and a price tag
and then over the course of about a year
I sold all that stuff with the goal of
trying to get everything down into two
boxes and two suitcases
[Music]
and kind of my rule was if I couldn't
remember kind of the last time that I
used something I would get rid of it
I find myself not worrying so much about
what I'm going to buy next but more like
what I'm going to do next or where I'm
going to go next
[Music]
the idea of minimalism manifests itself
in our work in a lot of ways but mostly
I guess what we're known for is really
how our product looks
[Music]
sustainable growth is good because that
implies that the thing that you're
building into the world is replacing
something that is obsolete and it does
it better and more efficiently whereas
unsustainable growth in a lot of ways is
something that is often very toxic to
the market or to a lifestyle to me
wealth isn't just measured by what you
own or how much money is in your bank
account it can also be having
experienced a lot in your life I think
it's very important for even having some
very solid relationships with your
friends like there's nothing better than
a good friendship and it makes a lot
more sense to invest in that than it
would be to invest a new couch for your
living room or anything like that it's
very difficult to describe when
something just feels right but that felt
very right for myself
[Music]
if somebody could take one clever use in
every country in this world a person
who's got vision
a person who is honest if every
president of every government could say
for one day get someone out of the
society to be a president for their
country just forward that one day it
could make a big difference
[Applause]
the manifesto of the world in order for
us the three billion youth of the planet
the climate crisis is a matter of
survival you world leaders have known
about the climate catastrophe for 25
years we cannot simply sit back and
watch let us work together the climate
clock is ticking the main problem of
this planet is the mindset people know
the consequences of what can happen what
they do people know what is right in
people who know what is wrong and still
they don't do the right thing I want to
ask why so it makes me both angry and
sad like I'm a you know I'm a human
being too like why can't you listen to
my decisions about my life like who
appointed you ruler the world and
allowed you to decide to take away my
future so we're now here because we're
frustrated and we want to make sure this
gets done
but just never straight what
[Music]
in Malawi more than 70% died young
people so kind of like okay if they if
young people we don't act now then when
is it going to be the right time in Hong
Kong there is there are a lot of youth
teenagers they start to think to change
their society by their own Mexico for
example has large petroleum reserves
because the politicians are only
interested in the money they're
exploiting the ocean and don't care that
it's being polluted by oil and that
species are dying out they don't care as
long as they make a profit but the
Mexican people aren't profiting from it
at all oh no no legaia nada they'll keep
getting and getting and that's what
greed is born people are confused and
they don't understand so if they were
come somewhere else and they were to be
taught something different they could
probably step out of that and then look
back at how their life wasn't be like oh
my god if like my life was not actually
that good even though I have all this
stuff
[Music]
the choices we all make
I speak for those that stand by and say
this is my continent it's not too late
the time has come
we'll go fight and make a difference
[Applause]
[Music]
if mankind is truly the crown of
creation and also comprehends his own
impermanence where does this endless
desire come from
what about the saying you can't take it
with you
[Music]
everything in my life had been going
pretty normally my work as a
neurosurgeon and all that and then I
woke up at 4:30 in the morning with
severe back pain and soon thereafter had
grand mal epileptic seizures and was
driven into coma and then I was taken to
the hospital and at that point they
determined that I had a severe and very
rare form of a gram-negative bacterium
meningitis that destroys the neocortex
the part that is responsible for all the
detailed awareness in our consciousness
when I first got in the hospital I had a
10% chance of survival by the end of the
week in Qom I was down to a 2% chance of
survival no chance of recovery
it's a perfect model for human death and
yet it was more like the blinders coming
off so when I came back to this world on
day seven all of my memories of Evan
Alexander's life before coma were
completely gone all language any
concepts of humans earth this universe
any knowing of the beings around me you
know my mother my sisters my sons I had
no clue who these beings were
before my car I was very much a modern
conventional scientist what's called
reductive materialist the journeying
soul who comes back from the near-death
experience knows there is nothing to
fear about death it is actually an
awakening to a far grander existence
that is who we truly are and that
changes the way one can see oneself and
how one self then interacts with other
beings I would say that any perception
of of greed and selfishness and
accumulation of material goods in this
material realm is really a symptom of
fear a fear that we in and of ourselves
are not worthy and so we try and
accumulate physical goods and kind of
build up our little pile as if that will
draw people to us or draw that love that
we deeply want it's a bottomless pit
we've separated ourselves from the
phenomenon of death
[Music]
anytime death is on our mind there's a
process that kicks in to get it out of
consciousness
my wife is a therapist in the local
hospice and she says look you have to
sit with deaf it takes courage to say
this entity that is me and was here
yesterday and is here today may not be
here tomorrow and will not be here in
some vaguely unspecified future that
that takes takes some guts
[Music]
we're just starting to study what
happens to older people as they become
more aware of death
some people become wiser become more
compassionate and now the trick is how
do we metaphorically speaking pop that
in a bottle and get young adults to
start drinking it
I'm very much afraid of my own death
[Music]
I'd having said that though I would like
to think that I'm making slow but steady
progress to coming to terms with the
fact that I will someday die it is
something that I don't look forward to
at the moment let me leave a bit and
make more money and let it visit me at
some point with my little cousins and
grandchildren are you know growing up so
I need time before that
[Music]
it can happen anytime one minute you
hear the next minute you've gone
[Music]
do you have to go to the school of
anxiety in order to ever become a mature
human being if we could accept with
grace and humility the fact that were
finite creatures we need to do that we
need to let go
humans appear to be the only creatures
from existence without purpose is
meaningless I believe there are two
exceptional days in every life the day
we are born and the day on which we
understand our purpose
what is important what is essential what
do you live for
I think happiness is vastly overrated
being happy is not unimportant but
happiness in and of itself does not
ensure that life is meaningful it does
not stop us from tranquilizing ourselves
with the trivial
[Music]
if you're just out to be happy there's a
lot of ways to do that but it doesn't
render you any more mature and it
certainly doesn't render you in a
position to sincerely confront the fact
that you're an ephemeral entity destined
to die
I would argue that there's got to be
more than two life than the singular
pursuit of happiness you need some stuff
you know I like shoes and my bicycle in
my house but I'm still with Mary Poppins
in the long run enough is as good as a
feast
to me oftentimes happiness is found in
the things that you didn't expect to
find positive so just to give you an
example recently one evening I was out
with my kids we've taken a walk to the
park and we were walking home and we've
had lots of what we call fireflies
lightning bugs little bugs that light up
in the evening
and so we spent 45 happy minutes
catching fireflies we played with them
for a while before we let them go
it's those quiet moments but everything
seems to be working well together you're
enjoying the people you're with you're
enjoying the activity you're doing and
oftentimes it's found in those
situations that you can't buy yummy -
Gucci oh gosh Buddhism flourishes best
wherever there is a society of people
who have cost materialism and
consumerism found it to not be the
answer of happiness and peace and
perhaps that will be the first gate that
opens them up to finding answers not on
the external but finding much more
answers within one's own self
you're always on the driver's seat and
therefore you can choose to drive
straight or you can choose to drive
wrong and so your own awareness your own
potential of being mindful is much more
powerful I think happiness is found
where there is inner contentment
simplicity and contentment
[Music]
your money will not impress anybody how
many bags you carry from a shopping
center will not impress what kind of car
you drive is not going to impress or
will make the difference
is what you bring from new in your heart
into the world and I wanted to give you
an experience which directly relates to
the celebration of life
[Music]
I don't know if you can feel the energy
this is a Midnight Sun and this is a
full moon completely opposite of one
another
Oh No
Oh
[Music]
Marnie neo
life is a ceremony in itself so you had
to recreate your ceremony to celebrate
your life uh-huh that's the key for the
chains there's no other key
are there solutions I hope so
greed is a complicated ally of
motivational forces that has driven
creativity innovation and discovery on
the other hand with each uniquely human
innovation there's been an unanticipated
downside it is a blessing and a curse
we're probably the first species to run
into the problem and evolution doesn't
create solutions to problems that don't
exist
evolution is blind evolution doesn't
plan for the future evolution doesn't
worry about moral consequences we have
moral principles and we all know them
but we don't live by them anymore that
is our problem we need to listen that's
not always easy to understand that every
action of my body my speech and my
thought patterns interconnect and impact
the lives of the others if that genuine
sense of awareness could be developed
human life could be and is the most
powerful and the most beautiful gift for
everyone I like how Albert Camus put it
in one of his notebooks come to terms
with death thereafter anything is
possible
[Music]
this is what my mother would do she says
oh oh
Oh
[Music]
some imaginative but thou is it formal
Oh Elizabeth sure would be charged with
adoption novel
[Music]
[Applause]
you